Welcome everyone to this lecture on the INNER JOIN.
There are several types of joints and in this lecture we're going to go through what I think is the
simplest joint type which is an INNER JOIN.
And typically when students are learning about joints and sequel they always start off with the inner
join because it's the easiest to understand.
First off what actually is a joint operation.
Put simply joins allow us to combine multiple tables together.
Now the main reason for the different joint types is decide how to deal if information only present
in one of the join the tables so let's begin by imagining a very simple example let's say our company
is holding a conference for people in the movie rental industry.
So before the conference actually starts we're going to have people register online beforehand and the
registration is simply just providing their name and we'll keep track of people as they register and
then the actual day of the conference.
They're going to come in and log in through an iPad with their name.
So after the conference we end up having these tables.
So we have a registrations table as well as a log ins table the respective I.D. columns indicate well
over the registered or logged in on site so we can see the registrations column we have Andrew who registered
first then Bob and Charlie then David and then we have Loggins fix Xavier Andrew Yolanda and Bob for
the sake of simplicity we're going to assume that in this little small universe all the first names
are unique.
So there are not two ANDREWS There's not two Bobs every person has a unique name to help me keep track
of the different joints since we're going to be using this example tables throughout this section of
the course.
Keep in mind that the registration names first letters go A B C D and if you take a look at Loggins
The two outstanding ones that are not in the registrations are exact here and Yolanda basically implying
that they forgot to register but still showed up the day of the conference.
So what is an INNER JOIN DO AN INNER JOIN will result with the set of records that match in both tables.
So the situation we have right now is in the registrations we had Andrew Bob and Charlie and David register
for the conference.
However the actual day of the conference when people were logging in we only had Andrew and Bob show
up that actually registered and then Xavier and Yolanda who forgot to register they came in on site
and then logged in and keep in mind here that it looks like Charlie and David registered but didn't
end up showing up to the conference to log in.
So we have that discrepancy there.
Xavier and Yolanda in Loggins table and then Charlie and David in the registrations table so where do
we actually have a match in both tables.
Well we have Andrew and Bob Andrew and Bob are the only ones that both registered and logged in the
day of the conference.
So an inner join is going to able to join these tables together for records that are a match in both
tables.
So when we're talking about an inner join we're only looking for the set of records to happen to be
in both tables.
And in this case that would only be Andrew and Bob.
So what's the actual syntax for this.
Well we can say select and then whatever columns you want but in this case we'll keep things simple
by selecting all columns and we say select all the columns from table A and then inner join with Table
B and then we provide what we're actually matching on.
So match on table a column is equal to Table B column match.
So what does that actually look like in practice so if we color code this and think of the tables as
Venn diagrams and if you look up sequel joins on google image search you'll see a ton of Venn diagram.
So a lot of people like to think of it this way if we see here that we're selecting from table A enter
joint on table B where A table a column match is equal to table B that column match.
So we're essentially saying grab table a and then grab table B.
And because it's an inner join only grab the rows that happen to be in both table a and table B.
And we have to actually join these tables on a particular column such as the named column that we saw
in registrations and Loggins because we know the names are unique over the small universe of people.
There's only one Andrew only one Bob etc..
Now something to keep in mind especially if it inner join is notice that this Venn diagram essentially
is only filled in in the crossover middle essentially stuff that can be found in both of these circles
table a and Table B because of that inner join is essentially symmetrical which means if you switched
select from table A and then inner join table B to look like this select from table B inner join on
table a you would get the same result.
So getting from table A and then joining on table B is the same as getting from Table B and then inner
joining on table eight.
Keep in mind this is only true for an inner join in this particular case.
So switching around the orders here even switching around the column match order doesn't really matter
for an inner join because it's the same regardless because this is a symmetrical Venn diagram so it's
actually work through this.
And what would actually happen in a more realistic situation with the example tables here we're going
to say select all the columns from registrations inner join Loggins.
So that's essentially saying take registrations table and then perform an inner join with Loggins seeing
the rows that happen to be in both registrations and Loggins and then we have to decide what column
we're actually looking at in order to perform this inner join.
In this case we'll do it on the name.
We'll say on registrations dot name.
So it's the table name dot.
And then the column name is equal to the table name dot column name so log and start name.
And keep in mind you could swap any of these orders around because it's an inner join it's symmetrical.
It doesn't really matter for saying select from registrations inner join in Loggins or select from Loggins
inner join on registrations and you can also swap around that on equals sign to be something like on
log ins that name equals registrations.
OK so here we're just generally showing the syntax and we're looking at that name column.
So then we look at well where do we have a match in both tables.
And that happens to be Andrew and Bob.
And so we said select all the columns from these.
So that includes the registration I.D. column as well as the log in I.D. column.
So we have these four columns we have the matches and we join them together to see this result.
So this is selecting all the columns from the resulting of registration inner joined with Loggins on
the name column.
OK and that's it.
That's an inner join again an inner join is looking for matches that exist within both tables and here
we are saying select all the columns notice because we said select all the columns the name column happens
to be duplicated or repeated twice because there's both a name and the registrations and the name in
the Loggins if you wanted to get rid of this duplication what you can do is actually specify what columns
you want.
So here I'm saying select registration I.D. Loggins not name then log in I.D. from registrations inner
join Loggins on registrations dot name equals Loggins not name so you might be wondering why do I have
to specify Loggins dot name instead of just saying name.
Well the reason for that is because name existed in both tables.
So we had both tables share a column name which means if I'm selecting something after a join I should
specify what table I'm referring to in regards to the named column and in this case it doesn't really
matter.
I could have said registrations that name or Loggins that name but I should be specifying because there's
a duplicate name column in my circle query I should be specifying what actual column I'm looking at
because recall here we had both the name column from registrations and the name column from Loggins.
So if I only want one of those because it's duplicated I'll specify that I'm looking at Loggins not
name column remember again that table order won't matter in an inner join.
And also if you see just join without the inner postcard circle will treat it as an inner join.
Now I'd highly recommend that you always type out the full inner join but some people as they get really
used to post equal just use the shorthand of join with C's which defaults to inner join.
OK let's go ahead and jump the PGA Amman and work through a couple of examples OK here we are in PGA
admin.
Now if we come over here to schemas under public under tables we can see the various columns that are
in the tables so if we take a look at for example the customer table we can expand the columns and we
can see we have the customer I.D. and then the associated information is that such as store I.D. First
Name Last Name Email et cetera and we can see in the payment table we have the payments as well as a
specific payment I.D. and then the customer I.D..
So what I want to begin exploring is if there was a way I could join the payment table with the customer
table in order to get maybe the customer email associated or face specific payment.
So for example I can say select everything from payments we'll go ahead and run that.
Let's put this on two lines together just for readability.
So I run this and I can say I have a payment I.D. and then a customer I.D. staff by the rental the amount
et cetera.
Let's go ahead and do the following.
We'll say select everything from payment and we'll perform an inner join with the customer table.
So this is essentially table a enter joined with Table B.
And since I'm doing an inner join I'm only going to get back results where that particular customer
happens to be both in the payment table and in the customer table.
And that I have to decide what I'm actually going to join them on.
So I have to join them on a column that is associated with both the payment table the customer table
and I can say I have this customer I.D. column which essentially uniquely identifies every single customer.
So go ahead and join it on and then we'll say payment Dot's customer underscore I.D. equal to the customer
table.
That customer I.D. And if we run this we should get back a lot of columns so we run this and we can
expand on this.
And now you'll see I have the payment I.D. customer I.D. essentially all the information from the original
payment table.
But if I keep going further now I see the repeated information based off customer I.D. but now it's
on the customer table.
So I see the story the first name last name email address etc..
All right now let's see how we can select certain columns from each table.
If I'm referring to a column that can only be found in one of the tables then I don't need to specify
what table it should come from.
Luckily Postgres sequel is smart enough to understand that if I refer to something such as select the
payments I.D. column since that's only found in the payment table I don't need to actually clarify what
table it should come from.
However if I'm referring to something like customer underscore I.D. that can be found in both tables
so I should clarify what table I'm actually asking the customer I.D. from and since I'm asking for payment
I.D. I should probably link it to the customer I.D. from the payment table.
So I do this by saying payments dot and then I ask for the customer I.D. And then finally let's go ahead
and choose some column that is unique to the customer table for example their first name.
So we'll simply say something like first underscore name and let's go ahead and try that out.
I'll put this from on a new line here.
So I'm selecting the payment I.D. which is unique to the payment table payment the customer I.D. customer
idea is not unique to either table.
So I clarify what table I'm actually referring to for that column and then we select first name first
name was unique to the customer table so I don't need to say customer dot first name optionally you
can't say customer dot first name and nothing will happen or nothing will change but it's just easier
to say just first name.
So it's going to run this and see the results notice now.
I could see payment I.D. customer I.D. and first name.
So this the general syntax that we're using for inner join.
Notice how the inner join is only going to join customers that are found in both payment and the customer
table.
Essentially what that means is by providing this inner join I'm not going to see customers that have
never created any sort of payment because I'm only looking for customer I.D. that are found in both
the payment table and the customer table.
Because of this inner join.
So again General syntax I select columns from a table let's say table a inner join on table B and then
on payment box might be equal to customer that customer I.D. So table a the identifying column equal
to table B and the same identifying column keep in mind this column could be called something else in
the customer table.
It could be maybe shortened to just C underscore I.D. but as long as they're referring to the same thing
the customer I.D. That's OK.
Typically in a well-designed database these should have the same column name but keep in mind sometimes
the column name will be slightly different in one table than the other.
So it's up to you as the sequel query developer to just make sure and double check that it's referring
to the same thing.
And as I mentioned before for an inner join technically these orders don't really matter.
I could say from customer inner join with payment and if I run this actually get back the exact same
results and depending on what version of sequel you're running or post postcard sequel they may be in
a slightly different order.
However keep in mind those results should be exactly the same because we're only looking at the intersection
of that Venn Diagram stuff that's both in table and table B.
So it didn't really matter what order you're looking at it because that Venn diagram is symmetrical.
OK that's it for the inner join.
Again this is pretty much the simplest joint possible.
Just looking at rows that happen to be in both tables.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.